---
layout: post
title:  "Wisdom gathered in 2018"
date:   2018-12-20 23:52:38
tags: [Life]
categories: Life
---
in 2018, I read a lot apart from books in the from of articles on reddit, tweets in twitter and a countless hours of podcasts. Following 
is the list of good quotes that I had saved in my Kindle, or summarized in Keep app.

**General Wisdom**

- Act as if God exists.

- Have faith in your Suffering.

- Live as if you were living for the second time.

- Experiencing everything in life is a bad idea.

- Hard choices, easy life. Easy choices, hard life.

- Try to productize yourself. Learn to sell yourself.

- Read daily, Write more, learn more, Hug longer, Kiss slowly.

- Take care of yourself as your parents would have taken care of you.

- Guilt is just society’s voice speaking in your head.

- Many lies in the society , just to serve the narrative.

- Money is important. Financial independece equates to confidence. 

- If the present is not the best time of your life, you are living a wrong life.

- The older you become, faster the time flies.

- Women age like milk, men age like wine.

**On Mindfulness**

- You have it already. You just can't feel it because your mind is making too much noise.

- Not wanting something is as good as having it.

- No one can hurt you without your permission. Strive for clear conciense.

- The only purpose of our body is to carry our brain.

- Ignorance is the natural state of mind.

**On Relationships**

- The minute you think the relationship won’t lead to marriage, you should probably end it.

- The biggest sign of failing relationship is when the disputes are futile. It’s simply two monologues and no listeners. The key to healthy relationship is communication. 

- Women are born at the summit of the mountain. Men are born in the valleys around it. A man is measured by how high he climbs. A woman is measured by how far she falls. Men have much to gain. Women have much to lose. Masculine energy conquers. Feminine energy defends. 

- Don’t show your weakness to a women,  any woman. Be vurnerable, Don't be weak.

- If you can't decide, the answer is no.

- There are no happy single women. 

- Love is the only way to grasp another human being in the innermost core of his personality. 

**On Existence**

- The questions like what's the meaning of life, Who am I, What is my purpose. Don't have generic answers and no one can answer them for you. They gave deep and personal answers that an individual has to find out.

- The meaning of life always changes, but that it never ceases. There are three possible sources for meaning: in work (doing something significant), in love (caring for another person), and in courage during diffcult times.

- The salvation of man is through love and in love. Love is the answer of everything.

- Love is the ultimate and the highest goal to which man can aspire.

- All fears are children of the fear of death : It’s a good question to ask – “Why do we fear death?” – You’re essentially dead every night during sleep, same thing if you’re under anesthesia, so why do we fear death so much.

- We are stardust brought to life, then empowered by the universe to figure itself out—and we have only just begun.

**On Happiness**

- Happiness is the state when you don't feel something is missing in your life. True happiness lies in scarcity but peace of mind. Comparasion is the thief of joy.

- Internal silence means contentment.

- Gift yourself after you achieve a goal, preferably a book.

- Exercise and diet are most important drugs, followed by meditation and gratitude.

- One must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration.



